So we have the proxy, and
that proxy is broadcasting changes.
So now let's go back a little
bit to our app.js file.
And here, we were loading data.
Remember, load data was actually going
to the API and storing the menu.
And here, we don't see that as a consumer,
but it seems like we are using the proxy.
When we change the menu, that proxy should
be broadcasting that there is a change.
Well, because of that,
now we can go to, for
example, our MenuPage.js, and somewhere,
for example, in our connected callback,
we can listen for
that event for appmenuchange.
So when the menu changes,
I will call, for example,
a render method that we to create just to
not do everything in that event handler.
Make sense?
So that means that we can
have a render method because
the data has changed,
the menu is available.
We can start rendering our user interface.
And here, we are going to use a mix
of techniques, as I mentioned before.
And for the techniques that are just the
same or just like writing a lot of code,
we will probably switch to pasting
the code that we know it's working.
The first time, I will type it completely
to explain what I'm doing, and
then the second one, that is the same,
there is no need for that.
So, first,
someone can be setting the menu as null.
So I should check if there is a menu or
not.
And if there is not a menu, maybe what
I want is to render a paragraph or
an image, something saying loading, okay?
So, in this case, I can take my root,
what is the root?
The root is the shadow DOM, and
search for an ID menu.
I can use querySelector or
get element by ID, and
change its inner HTML as,
for example, loading.
This is one way, use innerHTML is a way
to change the content of something.
So if the menu is null,
then it will say loading.
If it's not null,
I will write a lot of stuff here.
For example, first,
let's analyze the structure because we
haven't seen that structure before.
The menu.json looks like this,
it has, first,
an array of categories,
like hot coffee, ice coffee, okay?
And each category has a name and
an array of products.
So we need to loop through this.
So we're going to start
with categories first.
We can use for each or for
(let category of app.store.menu).
And now, I can use innerHTML,
so I can create a long string,
I can concatenate the string and
then set the innerHTML to the menu.
Or just to do things in different ways,
we can just create an li for
the category, and
say document.createElement("li").
And then for the li category,
we are going to create an h3 for
the name of the category and
a list for products, okay?
So I can do it with createElement,
so I can create an h3.
Or in this case, because I think
it's pretty simple to understand,
I'm going to use innerHTML.
So I'm going to say that
we will have an h3 and
then a list of products that
will have a class category.
And that's all I need here.
And finally, I will take the menu and
I will append that
liCategory at the end of it.
So for each category,
I'm creating a list item and an li,
and inside the li, I have, one,
an h3 and a list of products.
I'm mixing techniques here, okay?
Remember that.
For h3, I wanna put inside
the name of the category,
I already have the name of
the category in category.name.
So I can use the template here,
category.name,
dollar sign, curly braces, expression.
Category.name is the name
of the current category.
Make sense?
So now, coming back to the project,
I'm seeing this,
which it's better than the violet
title that we had before, right?
So, it worked.
We are injecting the DOM dynamically.
And if I inspect this,
I have a menu with four li's,
each li with an h3 and an empty ul.
Make sense?
Do you have any question on this,
that code?
So we are creating dynamically
HTML based on the menu.
And by the way, we didn't realize
that actually our proxy worked.
This happened because the event
appmenuchange was fired,
and that triggered our render method and
it worked.
And if someone is changing that menu
with a new version of the menu,
it will trigger, again, render, Okay?
Something that is not completely okay here
is that we are not clearing the menu.
Remember I mentioned when you're
doing vanilla JS, this is important.
When you're using appendChild before the
for, we should clear the contents, why?
Because if not, for example,
we will still keep the original loading,
because we will keep the previous content
and we are appending new elements.
Well, you can clear this
up before doing that.
And by the way,
you can cache the menu if you want instead
of accessing querySelector every time.
So now, what about the products?
Because now I need to define the product,
each product inside here, okay?
Well, instead of,
I'm talking about the li's that goes here.
What I want for each item, for each row,
I wanna create another component, okay?
So we are going to create another
component similar to what you do in React
or in Angular, you create the component
for each item, you have one for the list,
and one for each component.
I'm going to create a new component, okay?
But, before actually
creating the component,
let's try to understand
how I'm going to do that.
So for example,
after we do that appendChild,
I'm going to take the current category,
and for each products,
I'm going to, for example, do a map or a
forEach, I'm sure you can use a for each.
And you can say for each product,
I'm going to do something, what?
Well, I'm going to create a new element,
okay?
So I'm going to create an item element,
how?
document.createElement.
Of which type?
A type that I'm going to create.
Let's call that product-item.
It doesn't exist yet, okay?
Will it work?
It will create that HTML tag, but the
browser will not know how to render that,
so it will render nothing, okay, so far.
So now what I need is to pass
the current product to that component so
it can render the content, okay?
So, for that,
I'm going to use dataset.product.
And because it's an object,
I need to pass it as a string.
This is not the only way to do that, okay?
But, again,
I'm using different techniques.
So I can stringfy, I can pass an ID also,
instead of the whole product, anyway.
I try to show you different techniques.
And then I need to attach this to the,
where I need to put this?
Here, in this ul, okay?
Makes sense?
That ul is in file liCategory.
So I can ask to the liCategory to find,
by a selector, the ul, and
then append the child item,
something like that.
This is still not going to work,
because we haven't registered
that custom element yet.
But the idea,
I think the idea should work.
So if I see this here, if I inspect this,
I see a ul with a lot of product items,
each one with
the data product inside
rendering nothing yet, okay?
But it's okay.
So the next step is to create the custom
element and register that element.
Do you have any questions at this point?
Does it make sense so far?
Yeah.
>> Does the shadow DOM
allow you to use local IDs?
For example, is it valid to have two shadow
elements side by side with the same ID?
>> Yes, because it's its own documents, so
a shadow DOM has its own
document with its own rules.
But so far,
we don't have a shadow DOM on that one.
And I don't think I want shadow DOM for
the product item,
just to show you that you don't need
to use a shadow DOM every time.
So we will use shadow DOM for
each page component.
But then, I wanna share the CSS
stylesheet, for example, for
all the other web components
within that page.
It's our decision, okay?
So don't think that
shadow DOM goes always.